All joining in dedicating this Assembly Hall
to the worship of Jehovah God,
our grand King,
and the service of the Messianic King,
Jesus Christ,
say, “Yes!”
All right.
Molto bene!
On December 3, 2016,
a new Assembly Hall was dedicated in Cameri,
in the north of Italy
—some 30 miles (48 km) from Milan.
The dedication talk was given
by Brother Anthony Morris,
a member of the Governing Body.
Almost 4,000 people attended the live event,
and just under 30,000 brothers
from Piedmont and Lombardy
were tied in from their Kingdom Halls.
Over the past 30 years,
the Assembly Hall
had enabled thousands of brothers
to enjoy spiritual programs and association.
However, in recent years a need arose
to make it more suitable
for the increasing number of publishers.
So a decision was made
to tear down the old Assembly Hall
and build a bigger one.
Before proceeding,
planning permission for change of use of land
had to be obtained from the city council.
Many attempts were made to obtain it.
In the meantime,
the decision was made to use
temporary aluminum frame tents
for summer conventions.
With the help of two engineers,
an architect, and a surveyor,
we went back to the city council
for the umpteenth time.
And this time, the mayor said that we had
the right to proceed with the construction.
Oh, I will never forget the joy
we felt that day in the month of July
with that suffocating heat
as we walked out of the office;
got in the car,
which was parked in the sun
(we were wearing our ties and jackets);
and thanked Jehovah in prayer.
After praying, we realized that it was
120 degrees Fahrenheit (49°C) in the car.
So in 2013,
the construction work began.
The first stage of the project
was carried out by an outside company.
Later, teams of brothers
and sisters were organized,
and they devoted their personal time
to this theocratic project.
Altogether,
there were more than 5,000 volunteers.
They experienced what Psalm 133:1 says:
“How good and how pleasant it is
for brothers to dwell together in unity!”
The instruction received
from the world headquarters
was that a light roof
should be built that was inexpensive
and without pillars so as not to obstruct
the view of those in the audience.
After a year of design planning,
a roof was built with the best beam
weight-to-load capacity ratio.
Each beam weighs 11 tons
and has a load capacity of 65 tons.
One big problem was to make
the roof’s vertical movement under snow
compatible with the load-bearing beam
supporting the panels,
since the hall has a movable partition wall
dividing it into two sections.
We performed finite element simulations,
which enabled us to estimate
the actual movements of the building.
And we solved the problem by building
a telescopic structure
that enables the roof to slide,
as opposed to the load-bearing beam
supporting the panels,
which is very rigid and almost stationary.
There are some innovative design details
that make this Assembly Hall unique.
Another important feature
of this Assembly Hall
has to do with the acoustic walls.
We realized that the shape of the hall
was not acoustically ideal
for an audience of 4,000 people.
With the help of consultants,
who are our brothers,
we figured out how
to alternate sound-absorbing panels
with sound-reflecting panels,
which balances the sound in the entire hall.
Another feature of this hall
is the movable partition wall,
which makes it possible
to have two assemblies simultaneously.
This is the first wall in the world
that makes it possible
to have such high-level performance
in terms of quality.
I am truly amazed.
And it has made me realize
that when you get together
—when you’re united with a common purpose,
sharing strong values and principles—
great things can be accomplished.
Such quick payments
—I had never been asked
to receive my money before.
This was the first time
that others called me to get things paid.
The hall was empty.
I walked in and saw it finished.
I hadn’t seen it like this before.
I was moved to tears.
You see, you worked for it;
you were thinking about it,
even some sleepless nights;
and now you see the whole thing finished
and being put to Jehovah’s honor.
Yeah, you can’t describe that.
Brother Morris closed the dedication program
with an exhortation
based on Ecclesiastes 5:1:
“Guard your feet whenever you go
to the house of the [true] God;
and let there be a drawing near to hear.”